

Magic Tree House® Books
  #1: D
INOSAURS
 B
EFORE
 D
ARK
  #2: T
HE
 K
NIGHT AT
 D
AWN
  #3: M
UMMIES IN THE
 M
ORNING
  #4: P
IRATES
 P
AST
 N
OON
  #5: N
IGHT OF THE
 N
INJAS
  #6: A
FTERNOON ON THE
 A
MAZON
  #7: S
UNSET OF THE
 S
ABERTOOTH
  #8: M
IDNIGHT ON THE
 M
OON
  #9: D
OLPHINS AT
 D
AYBREAK
#10: G
HOST
 T
OWN AT
 S
UNDOWN
#11: L
IONS AT
 L
UNCHTIME
#12: P
OLAR
 B
EARS
 P
AST
 B
EDTIME
#13: V
ACATION
 U
NDER THE
 V
OLCANO
#14: D
AY OF THE
 D
RAGON
 K
ING
#15: V
IKING
 S
HIPS AT
 S
UNRISE
#16: H
OUR OF THE
 O
LYMPICS
#17: T
ONIGHT ON THE
 T
ITANIC
#18: B
UFFALO
 B
EFORE
 B
REAKFAST
#19: T
IGERS AT
 T
WILIGHT
#20: D
INGOES AT
 D
INNERTIME
#21: C
IVIL
 W
AR ON
 S
UNDAY
#22: R
EVOLUTIONARY
 W
AR ON
 W
EDNESDAY
#23: T
WISTER ON
 T
UESDAY
#24: E
ARTHQUAKE IN THE
 E
ARLY
 M
ORNING
#25: S
TAGE
 F
RIGHT ON A
 S
UMMER
 N
IGHT
#26: G
OOD
 M
ORNING
, G
ORILLAS
#27: T
HANKSGIVING ON
 T
HURSDAY
#28: H
IGH
 T
IDE IN
 H
AWAII
Merlin Missions
#29: C
HRISTMAS IN
 C
AMELOT
#30: H
AUNTED
 C
ASTLE ON
 H
ALLOWS
 E
VE
#31: S
UMMER OF THE
 S
EA
 S
ERPENT
#32: W
INTER OF THE
 I
CE
 W
IZARD
#33: C
ARNIVAL AT
 C
ANDLELIGHT
#34: S
EASON OF THE
 S
ANDSTORMS
#35: N
IGHT OF THE
 N
EW
 M
AGICIANS
#36: B
LIZZARD OF THE
 B
LUE
 M
OON
#37: D
RAGON OF THE
 R
ED
 D
AWN
#38: M
ONDAY WITH A
 M
AD
 G
ENIUS
#39: D
ARK
 D
AY IN THE
 D
EEP
 S
EA
#40: E
VE OF THE
 E
MPEROR
 P
ENGUIN
#41: M
OONLIGHT ON THE
 M
AGIC
 F
LUTE
#42: A G
OOD
 N
IGHT FOR
 G
HOSTS
#43: L
EPRECHAUN IN
 L
ATE
 W
INTER
#44: A G
HOST
 T
ALE FOR
 C
HRISTMAS
 T
IME
#45: A C
RAZY
 D
AY WITH
 C
OBRAS
#46: D
OGS IN THE
 D
EAD OF
 N
IGHT
#47: A
BE
 L
INCOLN AT
 L
AST
!
#48: A P
ERFECT
 T
IME FOR
 P
ANDAS
#49: S
TALLION BY
 S
TARLIGHT
#50: H
URRY
 U
P
, H
OUDINI
!
#51: H
IGH
 T
IME FOR
 H
EROES
#52: S
OCCER ON
 S
UNDAY
#53: S
HADOW OF THE
 S
HARK
Super Editions
D
ANGER IN THE
 D
ARKEST
 H
OUR
Magic Tree House® Fact Trackers
D
INOSAURS
K
NIGHTS AND
 C
ASTLES
M
UMMIES AND
 P
YRAMIDS
P
IRATES
R
AIN
 F
ORESTS
S
PACE
T
ITANIC
T
WISTERS AND
 O
THER
 T
ERRIBLE
 S
TORMS
D
OLPHINS AND
 S
HARKS
A
NCIENT
 G
REECE AND THE
 O
LYMPICS
A
MERICAN
 R
EVOLUTION
S
ABERTOOTHS AND THE
 I
CE
 A
GE
P
ILGRIMS
A
NCIENT
 R
OME AND
 P
OMPEII
T
SUNAMIS AND
 O
THER
 N
ATURAL
 D
ISASTERS
P
OLAR
 B
EARS AND THE
 A
RCTIC
S
EA
 M
ONSTERS
P
ENGUINS AND
 A
NTARCTICA
L
EONARDO DA
 V
INCI
G
HOSTS
L
EPRECHAUNS AND
 I
RISH
 F
OLKLORE
R
AGS AND
 R
ICHES
: K
IDS IN THE
 T
IME OF
 C
HARLES
 D
ICKENS
S
NAKES AND
 O
THER
 R
EPTILES
D
OG
 H
EROES
A
BRAHAM
 L
INCOLN
P
ANDAS AND
 O
THER
 E
NDANGERED
 S
PECIES
H
ORSE
 H
EROES
H
EROES FOR
 A
LL
 T
IMES
S
OCCER
N
INJAS AND
 S
AMURAI
C
HINA
: L
AND OF THE
 E
MPEROR
’
S
 G
REAT
 W
ALL
S
HARKS AND
 O
THER
 P
REDATORS
V
IKINGS
D
OGSLEDDING AND
 E
XTREME
 S
PORTS
More Magic Tree House®
G
AMES AND
 P
UZZLES FROM THE
 T
REE
 H
OUSE
M
AGIC
 T
RICKS FROM THE
 T
REE
 H
OUSE
M
Y
 M
AGIC
 T
REE
 H
OUSE
 J
OURNAL
M
AGIC
 T
REE
 H
OUSE
 S
URVIVAL
 G
UIDE
A
NIMAL
 G
AMES AND
 P
UZZLES

This is a work of fiction. All incidents and dialogue, and all characters with the exception of some well-
known historical and public figures, are products of the author’s imagination and are not to be
construed as real. Where real-life historical or public figures appear, the situations, incidents, and
dialogues concerning those persons are fictional and are not intended to depict actual events or to
change the fictional nature of the work. In all other respects, any resemblance to persons living or dead
is entirely coincidental.
Text copyright © 2016 by Mary Pope Osborne
Jacket art and interior illustrations copyright © 2016 by Sal Murdocca
All rights reserved. Published in the United States by Random House Children’s Books, a division of
Penguin Random House LLC, New York.
Random House and the colophon are registered trademarks and A Stepping Stone Book and the
colophon are trademarks of Penguin Random House LLC. Magic Tree House is a registered trademark
of Mary Pope Osborne; used under license.
Visit us on the Web!
SteppingStonesBooks.com
MagicTreeHouse.com
Educators and librarians, for a variety of teaching tools, visit us at
RHTeachersLibrarians.com
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available upon request.
ISBN 9780553510850 (trade) — ISBN 9780553510867 (lib. bdg.) —
ISBN 9780553510874 (ebook)
This book has been officially leveled by using the F&P Text Level Gradient™
Leveling System.
Random House Children’s Books supports the First Amendment and celebrates the right to read.
v4.1
a
For Bill Aquilar,
Mr. Bezo’s best friend
CONTENTS
Cover
Other Books in This Series
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
      
Prologue
1.  Gold Dust, Stardust
2.  Quarantine
3.  A Race Against Time
4.  Champion Mushers
5.  Straight Ahead!
6.  Port Safety
7.  Jingle Bells
8.  Catastrophe
9.  Balto of the Blue Dawn
10.  A Gift?
     
Author’s Note
About the Author

O
ne summer day in Frog Creek, Pennsylvania, a mysterious tree house
appeared in the woods. It was filled with books. A boy named Jack and his
sister, Annie, found the tree house and soon discovered that it was magic.
They could go to any time and place in history just by pointing to a picture in
one of the books. While they were gone, no time at all passed back in Frog
Creek.
Jack and Annie eventually found out that the tree house belonged to
Morgan le Fay, a magical librarian from the legendary realm of Camelot.
They have since traveled on many adventures in 
the magic tree house and
completed many missions for both Morgan le Fay and her friend Merlin the
magician. Teddy and Kathleen, two young enchanters from Camelot, have
sometimes helped Jack and Annie in both big and small ways.
Jack and Annie are about to find out what their next magic tree house
mission will be!
J
ack was reading on the front porch when Annie peeked out the door. “Bike
ride later?” she asked.
“Sure,” said Jack. “Let’s go now, before it gets too dark. Tell Mom and
Dad.”
Annie slipped into the house to tell their parents. Jack closed his book
about whales and sharks and stood up and stretched. He was tired from
swimming at the lake all afternoon, but he felt good. He loved summer. A
bike ride in the warm evening air seemed like the perfect way to end the day.
“Good to go,” said Annie, coming out of the house with their bike helmets.
Jack and Annie ran down the porch steps and climbed on their bikes. They
put on their helmets and pedaled out to the street. As they rode up their block,
they waved to a neighbor mowing her lawn and to a couple walking two
poodles.
“We need a dog!” Annie called back to Jack.
“What kind do you want?” he said.
“Any kind. I like all dogs,” said Annie.
“Big or small?” said Jack.
“Well, both. I want a little dog and a big dog,” she said. “And maybe an in-
between dog, too.”
Jack laughed. “Yeah, I’d like a dog,” he said. “But probably just one.”
“Whoa!” said Annie, putting on her brakes. “Did you see that?”
“What?” said Jack, stopping beside her.
“Above the woods—a bright flash of light,” she said.
“You’re kidding,” he said.
“
Not
 kidding! I had a feeling, even before we 
left the house!” said Annie.
Without another word, she bumped her bicycle over the sidewalk curb and
headed into the Frog Creek woods.
Jack followed, his bike bouncing over roots and twigs in the shadows
beneath the trees. Growing darker by the second, the woods were filled with
the sounds of crickets.
“Am I brilliant or what?” cried Annie. She had stopped next to the tallest
oak.
“Brilliant,” said Jack, laughing.
The magic tree house was perched high in the oak. Their friend Teddy was
grinning at them from the window. “It’s about time!” he called. “I was
getting ready to summon a crow or a rabbit to go get you.”
Jack and Annie leaned their bikes against the tree and hurried up the rope
ladder.
Inside the tree house, Teddy greeted them with hugs. “We must hurry,” he
said. “You are needed right away.”
“Where? When? Why?” said Annie.
“Where? A seaside town in a vast territory 
below the Arctic,” said Teddy.
“When? February 1925. And why? Because Merlin and Morgan believe you
can save lives there.”
“Whoa,” said Jack.
“Sounds serious,” said Annie.
“And cold,” said Jack.
“It is quite serious, and it will be quite cold,” said Teddy. “First, you’ll
need this.” He handed Annie a small travel guide:
“Alaska? Oh, boy, I’ve always wanted to visit Alaska,” she said.
“This guide was published in 1925,” said Teddy.
“So it will be a different Alaska than Alaska today,” said Jack.
“Precisely,” said Teddy. “And you’ll need this.” He reached into his cloak
and took out a small gold box. He handed it to Jack.
“What’s this for?” said Jack. He started to take off the lid.
“No! Don’t open it now,” said Teddy. “There is a thimbleful of enchanted
gold dust inside. It is from Morgan. You can use it only once.”
“Use it for what?” asked Jack.
“In your time of need, you can use it to acquire a great skill that you both
will share,” said Teddy.
“Cool!” said Annie. “Like the time we used the magic mist of Avalon to
give us the skill of great rock climbers.”
“And the time we wished to be great magicians,” said Jack. “And great
horse trainers.”
“And great soccer players,” said Annie.
“Yes, a bit like all those times,” said Teddy. “If you remember, on those
missions, the magic lasted only for an hour. This time, the magic will last for
twelve
 hours.”
“Wow, that’s a lot,” said Annie.
“Yeah,” said Jack, smiling. “That’s a really long time to be great at
something.”
“But there is another difference,” said Teddy. “Your skills on those past
missions helped you solve your own problems. On 
this
 adventure, your great
skill can only be used to save the lives of others.”
“Hmm. So what kind of danger will others in Alaska be facing?” asked
Jack.
“Merlin and Morgan didn’t tell me that part,” said Teddy. “I imagine they
were quite sure you’d be able to figure it out when you arrived in the Alaskan
Territory.”
“We’ll try,” said Jack.
“One more thing,” said Teddy. “Merlin wants those you help on this
mission to be celebrated as heroes. He does not wish his magic to be part of
their story.”
“Okay, but how do we help without anyone knowing that we’re helping?”
said Annie.
Teddy reached into his cloak and brought out a second tiny box. This one
was made of shimmering dark blue stone. He handed it to Annie.
She cradled the box in her hands. “It’s so beautiful,” she breathed.
“Do not open it until you need what’s inside,” said Teddy. “It holds a bit of
stardust, very rare and very precious.”
“Ohhh. What’s it for?” whispered Annie.
“If you toss the stardust into the air and make a wish to be forgotten,” said
Teddy, “any memory or evidence of your visit will instantly be erased.”
“Oh,” said Jack. “Okay.”
“Put the magic away now,” said Teddy. “You must be on your way.”
Jack hadn’t brought his backpack, so he put the gold box in the pocket of
his jeans. Annie did the same with the dark blue box.
“Ready,” they said together.
“Be safe. Be well,” said Teddy. “And do not freeze to death.”
“Gee, thanks,” Jack said. “Good advice.”
Annie pointed at the cover of the travel guide. “I wish we could go to the
Alaskan Territory!” she said.
The wind started to blow.
The tree house started to spin.
It spun faster and faster.
Then everything was still.
Absolutely still.
“C
old…face,” Annie said, her teeth chattering.
“Y-yeah, yeah,” said Jack. His breath billowed white into the sharp air.
“I feel like a fat b-brown bear,” said Annie.
Jack laughed. He and Annie were covered with fur from head to toe. They
wore fur pants, fur mittens, knee-high fur boots, and long fur jackets with fur
hoods.
“Welcome to Alaska,” said Jack. He pulled up his hood and tied it tightly
under his chin. Annie did the same. Then they looked out the window
together.
The tree house had landed in one of a few trees at the edge of a snowy
field. Beyond the field was a coastal town. The winter sun was setting over
an ice-covered sea.
“I wonder why we’re needed to save lives here,” said Jack.
“Do you think something scary is about to happen?” said Annie.
“Scary?” said Jack.
“Like an earthquake or a volcano?” said Annie.
“I don’t know,” Jack said. He picked up their guide to the Alaskan
Territory. He pulled off one of his fur mittens, opened the book, and read:
About 12,000 years ago, people and their dogs crossed a land bridge
over the Bering Sea from Russia into Alaska. When they reached
Alaska, they became the first humans and dogs to live in North
America
.
“Cool,” said Annie. “I like the dog part.”
Jack kept reading:
Until Russian explorers came to Alaska a few hundred years ago,
only native Alaskan people lived there. For thousands of years, the
native people survived by making use of the few resources of the
rugged, icebound land
.
“Wow, they must be tough people,” said Annie.
“No kidding,” said Jack. He read more:
In the late 1800s, the United States purchased Alaska from Russia,
and it became a territory of the U.S
.
“That’s why this guide is called the Territory of Alaska,” said Jack. “It’s
from 1925—that’s before Alaska became a state.”
“Got it,” said Annie. “Okay. Let’s go find some lives to save.”
“Wait,” said Jack. “Where’s our magic?”
“Check your pockets,” said Annie. Annie pulled off her mittens, and they
both reached into the big side pockets of their parkas.
“Got it!” said Jack as he pulled out the tiny gold box.
“Me too!” said Annie. She held up the tiny stone box.
“Gold dust, stardust,” said Annie. “One to save lives, one to make
everyone forget that we saved lives.”
“Yep,” said Jack. “Let’s not lose them.” They tucked the boxes back into
their pockets and put their mittens on.
As Annie started down the tree house ladder, Jack crammed the Alaska
guide into another one of his pockets. Then he clumsily followed Annie down
the rope ladder in his bulky clothes.
As they started across the snow-covered field, their boots squeaked in the
snow. Jack’s throat hurt from breathing the dry, cold air.
In the fading winter light, they crossed a bridge 
and walked along a frozen
creek until they came to a boardwalk that ran along the icebound seashore. A
sign said 
FRONT STREET
. The town was empty. There were no old cars or
wagons, only piles of ice and snow.
As Jack and Annie tramped through the snow, they passed stores and
saloons and restaurants with crooked signs and broken windows. They all
looked abandoned. There were only a few shops that looked as if they were
closed but still might be in business: Nome Pharmacy, Nome Laundry, and
Nome Bakery.
“I guess we’re in Nome,” said Annie.
“Good guess,” said Jack. He took off one of his mittens, pulled out their
Alaska guide, and found Nome. He read:
Around 1900, gold was discovered in Nome, a remote Alaskan town
on the Bering Sea. More than 30,000 gold seekers rushed to the
boom town. But within ten years, Nome’s gold rush was over, and
the town fell on hard times
.
“Hard times? No kidding,” said Annie. “Nome looks more like a ghost
town than a boom town.”
“Let’s keep going,” said Jack. He pulled his mitten back on and put their
guide in his pocket.
As he and Annie kept walking down the snow-covered boardwalk, they
passed the Dream Movie Theater and the Golden Gate Hotel. Both had signs
that said:
TEMPORARILY CLOSED
.
Finally, they came to a white two-story wooden building that looked like
someone’s house. They could see lights and people inside. The black sign
above the front door said:
MAYNARD-COLUMBUS HOSPITAL
“At least there are a few people in town,” said Annie.
“But why is the hospital the only place that seems open?” said Jack.
“Yeah, weird,” said Annie. They walked down the boardwalk until they
came to a schoolhouse with a sign that said:
NO SCHOOL. QUARANTINE
.
“Uh-oh,” said Jack.
“Quarantine?” asked Annie.
“It means you’re supposed to stay home so you won’t spread a bad disease
that’s going around,” said Jack.
“Maybe that’s why everything is closed,” said Annie. “I wonder what the
disease is.”
“I don’t know,” said Jack. “But if we go back to the hospital, we can ask
someone there.”
In the twilight, Jack and Annie hurried up the boardwalk to the entrance of
the small hospital. When they stepped through the front door, they found a
cold waiting room filled with people bundled in fur parkas and boots. Some
seemed quite ill, slumped down in their chairs with their eyes closed. Others
looked disappointed when they saw Jack and Annie, as if they were waiting
for someone else.
Only one person stepped forward to greet them. A boy about fourteen or
fifteen years old stared at them with dark, questioning eyes. “Who are you?”
he asked.
“Our names are Jack and Annie,” said Annie.
“Are you sick with diphtheria?” the boy said.
Annie shook her head. “No, we just arrived from the United States. Excuse
me a second.” She turned away from the boy and whispered to Jack, “What’s
diphtheria, exactly?”
“It’s a dangerous disease from the past. That must be what the quarantine
is for,” Jack whispered. “We can’t catch it. We had vaccines.”
Annie turned back to the boy. “Do 
you
 have diphtheria?” she asked gently.
“No. My sister and my mother do,” he said. “They are very sick in beds
upstairs. I’m waiting for the special medicine to arrive. Dr. Welch says it will
save their lives.”
Before the boy could say more, Jack heard a man shouting in a room down
the hall. “Hello! Hello! Can you hear me?”
The boy left the waiting room and hurried to an open doorway. Jack and
Annie followed, and the three of them peeked into a doctor’s office.
Two people were anxiously watching a man talk 
on an old-fashioned black
telephone. “Yes! This is Mayor Maynard in Nome!” the man shouted into the
receiver. “Has the musher arrived with the medicine package yet?”
As Mayor Maynard listened to the person on the other end of the line,
Annie whispered to Jack, “A musher is a person who drives a sled pulled by a
team of dogs.”
“I know,” said Jack.
“That’s a cool job,” Annie whispered.
“No, listen to me!” Mayor Maynard yelled into the phone. “If Gunnar
Kaasen arrives at the roadhouse in Solomon, keep him there! Do 
not
 let him
and his team move on! We can’t risk losing the medicine! We’re expecting a
huge blizzard tonight, sweeping down from the Arctic!”
A huge blizzard sweeping down from the Arctic? That’s not good news
,
thought Jack.
“We cannot lose that medicine!” said the mayor. “Five have died already.
There are at least twenty more cases. Possibly fifty. The Board of Health
believes it is better to delay it than to risk losing 
it altogether! Tell Kaasen to
wait until further word!”
“No! You can’t delay it!” the boy said, barging into the office. “Gunnar
Kaasen must keep going! The medicine has to get here soon!”
“I don’t have a choice, Oki,” said the mayor, hanging up the phone. “It’s
what the Board of Health has ordered.”
The boy turned to a large rosy-cheeked woman. “Nurse Morgan, please
don’t let them delay!” he said. He sounded near tears.
“It’s going to be all right, Oki,” Nurse Morgan said, patting him on his
shoulder. “Please go back to the waiting room.”
“Don’t worry,” said a gray-haired man in a white coat. “I promise you,
everyone is working night and day to fight this epidemic.”
“Dr. Welch, my sister and mother need the medicine 
now
, or they will
die!” said Oki. “Even in a blizzard, I know Gunnar Kaasen can keep
running!”
“You must leave us to do our work,” said Dr. 
Welch. He gently took the
boy by the arm and led him back into the hall, where Jack and Annie were
waiting. “Everything will be fine. Try to get some rest, son. We don’t want
you to get sick, too.”
Then Dr. Welch stepped into the room with Mayor Maynard and Nurse
Morgan and closed the door.
T
he Alaskan boy looked at Jack and Annie. “They can’t delay!” he
whispered frantically.
“It sounds like medicine is on the way,” Jack said, trying to calm him. “It
will arrive once the storm passes.”
“But it needs to get here as soon as possible!” said Oki.
“The doctor said—” started Annie.
“The doctor can do nothing until the medicine arrives,” Oki said. “But
there is something 
I
 can do.” He headed down the hall and hurried out the
front door of the hospital into the dark. As he left, a gust of frigid air blew
into the waiting room.
“That’s it!” Annie said to Jack.
“What?” he said.
“Our mission! Help save the lives of these sick people!” Annie said.
“That’s why Merlin sent us here!”
“I think you’re right,” said Jack. “So let’s talk to the doctor and nurse and
find out what we can do.”
“No, we should go,” said Annie.
“Go where?” asked Jack.
“Go save Oki’s life first!” Annie said.
“But he’s not one of the people in danger,” said Jack.
“He will be! He’s going to do something crazy. I can feel it!” said Annie.
“Come on!” She took off down the hallway and out the front door. Jack
followed her into the icy cold. The moon was full and bright overhead.
“There!” said Annie. Before Jack could stop her, she took off after the
Alaskan boy. “Oki, wait!” she shouted.
Jack hurried after Annie down the moonlit boardwalk. When they caught
up with Oki, they were panting, their breath billowing into the air.
“Stop!” said Annie. “We want to help you!”
“How can you help me?” said the boy. He kept walking.
Annie and Jack fell into step beside him. “We came to Nome to help
people fight the epidemic,” said Annie.
“Only the medicine can help,” said Oki. “They might 
all
 die soon if they
do not get the medicine.”
“Why can’t they bring the medicine here by boat?” asked Jack.
“The sea is frozen!” said Oki. “Just look!”
“Well, what about a plane?” said Annie.
“No plane can fly at forty or fifty degrees below zero!” said Oki. “The
pilot would freeze.”
“Oh, yeah, you’re right,” said Jack. 
Planes in 1925 must still have open
cockpits
, he thought.
“A car?” asked Annie.
“No roads in winter,” said Oki. “The only way 
to Nome is by dogsled, over
the mail trail.”
“So what do 
you
 plan to do?” asked Jack.
“I will take a team of dogs and find Gunnar Kaasen,” said Oki. “I will
travel through the storm and bring the medicine back myself.”
“But what about that blizzard?” asked Jack. “The one the mayor was
talking about—the huge blizzard sweeping down from the Arctic?”
“Any good musher with a good team of dogs can handle a blizzard,” said
Oki.
“Where’s your team?” asked Annie.
“My uncle Joe is a mail carrier,” said Oki. “He has a team that runs to Port
Safety and Solomon and beyond all the time.”
“So your uncle Joe will go with you?” asked Annie.
“No. He has a broken leg from a sled accident,” said Oki. “But I am not
afraid to go alone.”
Jack and Annie hurried alongside Oki, until they came to a shack on a spit
of land near the frozen sea.
In the bright moonlight, Jack could see that the shack was made of old
driftwood and flattened tin cans. Smoke was rising out of a stovepipe on the
roof.
“This is my uncle’s house,” said Oki. “And those are his huskies.”
Next to the small house was a dog pen surrounded by a wire fence. A
dogsled was inside the pen. Eight huskies were sleeping in the snow, their
dark bodies curled up together to keep warm.
“Oh, wow,” breathed Annie.
The dogs woke up at the sound of voices. They leapt to their feet and
began yipping and whining.
“Hi, guys!” Annie said. She hurried to the fence to pet them.
“Careful!” said Oki. “They are very strong. They can jump up.…”
But Annie had an instant connection with the dogs. “You’re so beautiful!”
she said, reaching over the fence and rubbing different furry heads. “Hey,
what’s your name? What’s 
your
 name?”
As Annie spoke, the dogs flattened their ears, and their lips curved into
smiles.
“They really like her,” Oki said to Jack. He sounded impressed.
“Yeah, Annie has a special way with animals,” said Jack. “Especially
dogs.”
Oki smiled for the first time. “Do you and Annie want to come inside and
get warm?” he said.
“Sure, thanks,” said Jack.
Jack and Annie followed the Alaskan boy into the shack. Inside, a lantern
lit a drafty room that smelled of fish and kerosene. Scratchy band music came
from a wooden radio with big knobs.
“I must speak to my uncle. He is in bed,” said Oki. He opened a door and
slipped into another room.
Jack and Annie looked around. Strips of dried dark pink fish hung from a
rack near the stove, which was made from an old metal barrel. Wooden
barrels were set as chairs around a wooden table.
Voices came from the other room. Jack recognized Oki’s. “But I 
can
 go
alone!”
“No, you cannot!” said a deep, rasping voice.
Jack wondered if he and Annie should leave. It seemed wrong to overhear
a family argument. “Let’s go outside,” he said to Annie.
“But we have to help fight the epidemic,” she said.
“I know,” said Jack. “Maybe it would be better to go back to the hospital
and—”
“Listen!” Annie interrupted. She pointed to the radio.
The music had stopped. A news bulletin had come on: 
“A desperate drama
is unfolding in Alaska! In the town of Nome!”
 the broadcaster said.
“Nome!” said Annie. She turned up the volume on the radio.
“All eyes are on this small icebound town in the northern territory, where
an outbreak of diphtheria has already claimed five lives. Twenty of the best
mushers and more than a hundred and sixty dogs have been heroically
running a relay across the frozen tundra. They must travel a total of six
hundred miles to get medicine from Nenana, Alaska, to the town of Nome.…”
“That’s us!” said Oki, hurrying back into the room.
“But now a blizzard threatens to curtail the efforts to save the residents of
Nome,”
 the announcer said. 
“The storm is expected to sweep down from the
Arctic, with forty-mile-per-hour winds and temperatures as low as thirty
degrees below zero.”
“Oh, man,” said Jack.
“It is unclear whether the mushers and their teams of heroic dogs will be
able to continue,”
 the announcer said. 
“The medicine is now in the hands of
champion musher Gunnar Kaasen. Will he and his lead dog, Balto, be forced
to stop their lifesaving journey?”
“Balto!” said Annie. “Didn’t we see a statue of him in Central Park in New
York?”
“Yeah, but I can’t remember 
why
 he’s so famous,” said Jack.
“Me neither,” said Annie.
“Will the blizzard keep the medicine from getting to the sick and dying in
Nome?”
 the announcer said. 
“It’s a race against time! A race against
death!”
 Then the man’s voice turned cheerful: 
“And now we return to the
music of King Oliver’s Creole Jazz Band!”
The lively music came back on, and Oki turned the radio off. “I’m going.
I’m taking the dogs,” he said. He grabbed a burlap sack hanging near the
door and started filling it with dried fish. “I’ll take this to feed them along the
way. I’ll find Kaasen. I know—”
“Do not go. Please.”
Jack and Annie turned to see a native Alaskan man hobbling into the room
on a crutch. He had long jet-black hair and wore a fur pullover with a hood.
He had a weathered face and dark eyes. He barely glanced at Jack and Annie
as he fixed his gaze on Oki. “If Gunnar Kaasen and Balto cannot travel in this
weather, neither can you,” he said.
“I can at least try, Uncle Joe,” said Oki. “I have to.” He kept throwing fish
into the sack.
“Do not go out there alone, Oki,” rasped his uncle. “You are not a
champion like Seppala or Kaasen. And none of my dogs are as strong as
Togo or Balto.”
“It doesn’t matter how great Kaasen is,” said Oki, “if he is sitting at the
roadhouse in Solomon.”
“If he waits, he waits for good reason,” said Oki’s uncle. “Any team can be
lost in a blizzard.”
“Let me go, please,” Oki said, facing his uncle.
“No!”
 shouted the man.
Jack held his breath as he looked back and forth from Oki to his uncle.
Annie started to interrupt, but Jack shook his head at her. 
This isn’t our
business
, he thought.
“I have run the trail many times,” said Oki. “I can do it with my eyes
closed.”
“But I have always been with you,” his uncle said. “You have never gone
out alone.”
“I have to try!” said Oki.
“Who will help you in a whiteout?” his uncle asked. “Who will help you if
the ice breaks and moves out to sea? You will be gone forever.”
“Maybe. But what about my mother?” Oki cried. “And my sister? They
can’t breathe! They can’t swallow! They are on fire with fever! I promised
them the medicine would arrive tonight. If it doesn’t come soon, 
they
 will be
gone forever. I have to hurry! You heard the radio! It’s a race against death!”
Oki slung the sack of dried fish over his shoulder, picked up the kerosene
lantern from the table, and hurried outside.
“S
tay with me, boy!” Uncle Joe called after Oki. But the man’s voice was
lost in the excited barking of the huskies in the yard.
“Excuse me, sir,” Annie said. “What if 
we
 go with him?”
“Annie—” said Jack, shaking his head.
The man turned and looked at Annie and Jack as if noticing them for the
first time. “Who are you?” he said.
“Jack and Annie,” said Annie. “We’re friends of Oki’s, and—and—we’re
champion mushers.”
What?
 thought Jack.
Oki’s uncle scowled. “Champion mushers? How can that be? You are very
young.”
“We 
are
 young,” said Annie. “But we have great skills. Right, Jack?” She
quickly added in a whisper, “Gold dust.”
Oh, right
, thought Jack. He nodded.
“We heard that lives were in danger here,” said Annie. “So we came from
the United States to help.”
“Help how?” said Oki’s uncle.
“Take a team of sled dogs and help get the medicine here,” said Annie.
“Right, Jack?”
Jack took a deep breath. He was a little nervous about losing their way and
freezing to death, but he nodded again.
“We really want to help you,” Annie said to Oki’s uncle.
The man stared at them for a moment, his face lined with grief. “I don’t
know what to do,” he said. “I lost my wife and my two children seven years
ago in the flu epidemic. Nome lost more than a 
thousand people then. I fear it
is about to happen again.” Tears started down the man’s craggy face.
Jack was stunned. 
More than a thousand people died?
“That 
won’t
 happen again,” Jack vowed. “We’ll do everything we can.”
“Thank you. But 
please
 leave my nephew here,” said the man. “Do not let
him go. Oki and his mother and sister are all I have.”
“Don’t worry. We won’t let him go,” said Jack.
“Take my team. They are good dogs,” said Oki’s uncle. “They have
traveled the trail hundreds of times, delivering mail with me.”
“We promise we’ll take good care of them,” said Annie.
“Thank you.” The man bowed his head. “Thank you.” Then he turned and
hobbled with his crutch back into his room.
Annie took a deep breath. “This is a good plan,” she said to Jack. “Right?”
“Right,” he said. He hoped it was a good plan. He felt terrible for Oki and
his uncle.
“Gold dust?” said Annie.
Jack took off his mitten, reached into his pocket, and pulled out the tiny
gold box. He pried open the lid and stared at the glittering dust inside.
“It’s so beautiful,” breathed Annie.
Jack poured a bit of the gold dust into the palm of his bare hand. “We wish
to be champion dog mushers to save lives,” he whispered. Then he tossed the
dust into the air. The room filled with a sparkling gold light. The light
gathered around Jack and Annie, then quickly faded away.
Jack felt a rush of energy.
“Wow!” said Annie, grinning. “I’m ready to hit the trail. Are you?”
“Yep!” said Jack. “Sure am.” He laughed.
“Quick, before Oki leaves with the dogs,” said Annie. She started for the
door.
“Wait,” said Jack. “The magic works for twelve hours.” He looked at a
clock on the wall. It was eight-thirty. “We have to be back by eight-thirty
tomorrow morning. No later.”
“Got it!” said Annie. Then the two of them 
hurried out of the shack into
the freezing night.
The huskies were whining and leaping around the moonlit pen as Oki tried
to buckle them into their harnesses. “Be still!” he commanded. “Be still!”
“Wait, Oki!” said Jack.
Wrestling with a dog, Oki looked up at Jack.
“Annie and I will look for Gunnar Kaasen!” said Jack. “Your uncle wants
us to take the team by ourselves.”
“By yourselves?” said Oki.
“Yes!” said Annie. “You have to stay here. He can’t risk losing you.”
“But how will you do this?” said Oki. “You don’t know the dogs or the
trail.”
“We have great skills,” said Jack. “And we trust the dogs. Your uncle told
us they’ve traveled the trail hundreds of times.”
“Yes…but—” said Oki.
“Good! Then 
our
 job is just to help them do 
their
 job,” said Annie.
“And 
your
 job, Oki, is to stay with your uncle 
and be near your sister and
mother,” said Jack.
“If you are out in the storm, your uncle will be sick with worry,” said
Annie. “And your mother and sister would not want that.”
Oki stared out toward the frozen sea for a moment. He looked very
troubled. “I want to go with you,” he said finally. “But I will stay here for the
sake of my uncle.” He held the gate open so Jack and Annie could enter the
dog pen.
“Come on, guys,” Jack said to the huskies. “Let’s buckle up!” He and
Annie pulled off their mittens. Even in the dark, they had no trouble hitching
the dogs into their harnesses.
“I’ll get the rigging,” said Oki. He grabbed a bundle of lines from the
basket of the sled and began untangling them.
When Jack and Annie finished putting harnesses on all the dogs, they
hooked the team to the rigging. They quickly and calmly attached tug lines to
the harnesses and fastened neck lines to collars.
“Work with us, guys!” Annie said as they tried to hitch the excited dogs to
the towline.
A lead dog jumped up and licked Jack’s face.
Jack laughed. He knew not to scold the dogs and risk dampening their
enthusiasm. The team would need their high spirits to run the tough race
ahead.
Soon all the huskies were strung to the towline, lined up in pairs. The two
lead dogs stood proudly in front, their tails high, their noses sniffing the air.
The bells on their collars jingled.
Two swing dogs stood behind the leads. Two team dogs stood behind
them, and two wheel dogs stood directly in front of the sled.
“You guys are the best!” said Jack.
The dogs whined and barked, as if eager to go.
“You are both very good with the dogs,” said Oki.
“Be firm. Be fair. Give kindness and respect,” said Annie. “That’s how we
always treat them. We promise.”
“Thank you,” said Oki.
Jack and Annie pulled on their mittens. “How far is Solomon?” Jack asked.
“About thirty-five miles,” said Oki. “In about twenty miles you will pass
the roadhouse in Port Safety. Maybe fifteen more, you will come to the
roadhouse in Solomon, where you will find Gunnar Kaasen.”
“Any idea how long the trip should take?” asked Annie.
“About five hours to get there,” said Oki.
“So around ten to go and come back,” Annie said to Jack.
“No problem. Where does the trail start?” Jack asked Oki.
“Just beyond the yard,” said the boy, “where you see tracks in the snow.”
“Got it,” said Jack. He turned to Annie. “How about I drive first? You can
sit in the basket, and then we’ll switch?”
“Okey dokey,” said Annie. The dogs were still 
as she took her position in
the basket of the sled. She sat on the wooden slats and held the side railings.
Jack stepped onto the long runners that extended behind the basket. He
gripped the two handles of the sled, bent his knees, and leaned forward. He
felt as if he’d driven a dogsled all his life.
“I’ll get the snow hook,” said Oki. He picked up a metal hook that
anchored the sled to the snow. He put it in the basket in front of Annie. Then
he added the sack of dried fish. “Dog food,” he explained.
“Cool,” said Annie.
“All set?” Jack asked.
“All set,” Annie said. “Oki, please tell your uncle we’ll take good care of
his team.”
“See you in the morning!” said Jack.
“Good luck!” said Oki.
“Line out!”
 Jack called to the dogs, knowing all the right commands to
use. Bells jingling, the 
lead dogs drew the team straight out in front of the
pen.
“Hike!”
 Jack shouted. All eight huskies bounded forward and pulled the
sled into the cold Alaskan night.
M
oonlight cast a silvery glow over the icebound sea. The huskies’ heavy
breathing made a cloud over the team as it glided along the coast. The only
other sounds in the darkness were the jingling bells of the lead dogs, the
creaking of the sled basket, and the 
swish
 of the smooth wooden runners over
the snow.
As the dogs did their job, Jack magically knew how to do his: He knew
how to “pedal” the sled by pushing the ground with his right foot while
keeping his left on the runner. He knew how to push 
in the perfect rhythm to
keep the team from running too fast, so they wouldn’t pant and hurt their
lungs in the freezing air. He knew how to balance his weight and bend his
legs to absorb the shock of bumps on the trail. He knew how to keep all the
lines tight and straight, so none of the dogs would get tangled in them.
Jack knew all the musher commands, too. When the team came to a
snowdrift, he shouted, 
“Gee!”
 to make the wheel dogs curve to the right.
When the team came to another drift, he shouted, 
“Haw!”
 to make the
wheel dogs curve to the left.
When it was time to straighten out the towline again, Jack shouted,
“Straight ahead!”
Every time the dogs did what Jack commanded, he said, 
“Good dogs!”
But he hardly said more. He knew the fewer words, the better. The dogs
depended on clear commands.
Riding in the sled basket, Annie was silent, too, though several times Jack
heard her gasp and say, “Wow!”
“Wow!” is right
, Jack thought. The windless Alaskan night was beautiful.
Maybe the forecast was wrong. Maybe their ride would just be a thrilling race
to save lives.
Mile after mile, the huskies ran along the well-worn trail. When the dogs
raced down an incline, Jack dragged his heel to keep them from going too
fast. When they labored up an incline, he lightened their load by hopping off
and running beside the sled, holding on to one of the handles to keep it
steady. When the trail was flat again, he jumped back on the runners.
“Good driving!” Annie called.
Jack smiled. He loved being a champion musher. He loved knowing
exactly what to do and when to do it. But he especially loved the easy
connection he felt with the huskies. Sometimes he even felt like a running
dog himself as he pedaled in rhythm to their pace.
Lost in his thoughts, Jack failed to notice a change in the weather, until he
heard Annie call out, “The storm’s starting!”
Jack realized it had gotten colder and darker. Clouds covered the moon.
The wind was blowing, and snow was falling. Snowflakes began to freeze on
the lenses of Jack’s glasses. Soon he couldn’t see well enough to give
commands to the dogs. Flying blindly down the trail, he tried to wipe his
glasses with a fur mitten, but that only made it worse.
As the huskies headed into a sharp curve, Jack lost his balance. He slipped
off the runners and tumbled into the snow. The huskies came to a halt and
started barking.
“What happened?” Annie shouted.
“My glasses got messed up,” Jack said, picking himself up. “I couldn’t see
anything.”
“Don’t worry, that happens,” said Annie.
“I guess I was 
too
 sure of myself,” said Jack.
“Even champion mushers have problems if they can’t see,” said Annie.
“Let’s switch places for a while. I’d love to drive.”
“Sure, thanks!” said Jack. He climbed into the 
basket and sat on the
boards, while Annie took her position on the runners.
“Line out!”
 Annie commanded the dogs.
The team straightened out the lines.
“Good dogs!”
 Annie shouted. 
“Hike! Straight ahead!”
The huskies started running again. As they pulled the sled through the
swirling snow, Jack took off a mitten and scraped his glasses with his bare
fingers. When his skin started burning with pain from the cold and wind, he
quickly put the mitten back on.
Annie kept a steady hand and a steady pace as she drove the eight huskies
through the snowstorm. The wind blew harder, but she shifted her weight to
keep the swaying sled from tipping over. She never let the towline go slack
and get tangled with the other lines. Every time she yelled “Gee” or “Haw,”
Jack leaned to the right or left to help the sled around the curves.
When the dogs started up a slope, Jack knew he should lighten their load.
“I’ll get off!” he called to Annie.
“Easy!”
 Annie commanded the team.
As the huskies slowed down, Jack jumped out of the basket. “I’ll run
awhile!” he yelled.
“Okay, but stay close!” said Annie. Then she commanded the dogs to pick
up speed again: 
“Get up!”
 The team easily dashed up the incline and sped
along the frozen shore.
Jack decided to keep running. It felt good to move in the biting cold. Then
suddenly he heard the grinding of the sled runners. The team was running
over ice instead of snow! Jack heard a loud cracking sound beneath his boots.
His feet had broken through the ice! His fur boots sank into a freezing puddle
almost a foot deep.
The team sailed ahead of Jack, pulling Annie and the sled away from the
ice. Left behind in the snowy dark, Jack tried to climb out of the crack, but
more ice broke off. His feet were getting soaked!
“Annie!” he shouted. “Annie! Stop!”
“Gee!”
 Annie yelled. Jack could hear her turning the team around. He
heard the bells of the lead dogs as they headed toward him.
“Whoa!”
 Annie brought the huskies to a stop.
“Stay back!” Jack shouted. “There’s thin ice here! Keep the dogs back!” If
the huskies got their feet wet, their soft pads would quickly stick to the ice
and freeze.
Jack used all his strength to pull his boots out of the crack. He slipped and
slid across the ice and snow as he made his way to the sled. “Come on, let’s
go!” he cried, climbing into the basket. “My feet are soaked!”
“Hike!”
 Annie yelled.
As the dogs took off through the bone-chilling cold, Jack felt his feet
burning with pain. Soon they started to grow numb. As an expert musher, he
knew that wet feet lost heat twenty-five times faster than dry feet. He had to
get out of the cold immediately or he would suffer severe frostbite.
Before Jack could think of what to do, the 
huskies slowed down and
yelped with excitement.
“Oh, wow!” said Annie as the team came to a stop.
Jack’s glasses were covered with ice again. “What is it?” he shouted,
unable to see. “What’s there?”
“We’ve come to a house!” yelled Annie. “There’s smoke from a chimney!
And there’s a light shining inside!”
“Just in time!” said Jack. He climbed painfully out of the basket as Annie
set the snow hook in the ground to hold the dogs. 
“Stay!”
 she commanded.
She helped Jack through the blowing snow to the front door of a log cabin.
A
nnie banged on the wooden door.
A moment later, it opened. “Gunnar?” a man said, peering into the
snowstorm.
“No!” Annie shouted. “The ice cracked and my brother fell through! His
feet are soaking wet! Can you help us?”
“Hurry! Get inside!” the man said.
With Annie’s help, Jack limped into the warm, firelit cabin. He took off his
mittens and wiped snow and ice from his glasses.
“Sit near the stove!” the man commanded. “I’ll heat some water!”
Annie helped Jack out of his parka, and he sat on a wooden chair near a
crackling woodstove.
“Take off his boots!” the man said.
Annie helped Jack pull off his fur boots and wool socks, then set them near
the stove. The man grabbed a kettle from the top of the woodstove and
poured water into a bucket.
Jack looked at his wet feet. They were white and numb from the cold. He
couldn’t move his toes.
“How are they?” the man said, lugging the bucket to Jack.
“N-not bad,” Jack said. He was still trembling from the cold.
“Not good,” said the man, looking at Jack’s feet. He set the bucket down in
front of Jack. “Soak them awhile.”
“Thanks,” said Jack. As he put his feet into the warm water, he was
overcome with pain. He started to pull them out, but the man stopped him.
“Keep ’em there, kid,” he said.
“Okay,” said Jack, gritting his teeth. Listening to the howling wind and the
snow pelting the cabin windows, he worried about the huskies. “Can—can
we bring our dog team inside?” he asked.
“Sure, I’ll unhitch them from their harnesses. You stay here and soak your
feet,” the man said. Then he threw on a parka and hurried outside to get the
dogs.
“I’ll help him,” Annie said to Jack. “Don’t move.” And she followed the
man back into the storm.
As Jack sat alone in the one-room cabin and soaked his feet, he worried
about the time. He looked around for a clock but didn’t see one. How long
would it take for his boots to dry? he wondered. Would his feet be okay? Did
the dogs have frostbite, too?
Jack was glad when the door opened. “Everyone in!” Annie shouted.
Hauling the sack of dried fish with her, she led the huskies inside.
The man followed the team into the cabin and slammed the door against
the storm. “Go! Sit,” he 
ordered the dogs. He pointed to dry straw spread
over the floor. The bedraggled huskies took slow steps across the room and
settled down in the straw.
“Feel any better?” the man asked Jack.
“Yes,” said Jack. His teeth had stopped chattering, and the pain in his feet
had lessened. “I’m Jack. She’s my sister, Annie.”
“I know, she told me,” said the man. “I’m Ed.” He grabbed the kettle and
poured a little more steamy water into the bucket.
“Ed’s a musher, too,” said Annie. “His team is in a shed behind the cabin.
He’s a mailman, like Oki’s uncle. He recognized their dogs.”
“Cool,” said Jack.
“Yep,” said Ed. “Keep soaking your feet while your sister and I take care
of the dogs.”
Jack kept his feet in the bucket as Ed poured drinking water into a large pot
and gave it to the team. Then Ed and Annie knelt in the straw and massaged
the dogs’ feet, one paw at a time. The huskies panted and looked as if they
were smiling.
“Good dogs, good dogs,” Annie kept saying.
“That’s right, good dogs,” Ed chimed in.
Jack saw that the musher was missing teeth and his beard was scraggly.
Even so, his face had dignity and strength, Jack thought. Now that he
understood the job of a professional musher, he admired Ed a lot.
“Ed lives here, at the Port Safety roadhouse,” Annie said. “That’s a good
name for it, huh?”
Jack nodded. As the wind howled outside, it 
did
 feel safe inside the cabin,
but he worried that they couldn’t stay. They had only twelve hours of magic.
“Do you know what time it is?” he asked.
“Hold on.” Ed pulled out a pocket watch. “Almost midnight,” he said.
So almost eight and a half hours left to find Gunnar Kaasen and return to
Nome
, thought Jack. Suddenly he remembered something. “Ed, why did you
call us Gunnar when you opened the door?”
“Did you mean Gunnar Kaasen?” asked Annie. “Were you expecting
him?”
“I 
did
 mean Gunnar Kaasen,” said Ed. “Earlier today I was told to wait for
him. If he gets tired on his journey, I’m supposed to take his package on to
Nome. But then I got word from Solomon that Gunnar would be staying there
awhile. When I heard a knock, I thought he’d decided to push on.”
“No,” said Annie. “The mayor of Nome told him to wait until the storm
ends. At least that’s what someone told us.”
“Good thing,” said Ed. “Only a crazy fool would drive in a storm like this.
So why the heck were you two out there?”
“Uh…well, we just went out for a short ride to…uh…,” said Annie.
“To exercise Oki’s uncle’s dogs,” said Jack, “while Oki’s at the hospital.”
“Right,” said Annie. “And then we got lost.”
“You’re lucky you found this place before you froze to death,” said Ed.
“Yeah. Really lucky,” said Jack.
“How are your feet?” Ed asked him.
Jack pulled his feet out of the water. His skin was pink, and the terrible
pain was gone. He wiggled his toes. “I think they’re going to be okay,” he
said.
“Good news,” said Ed. He grabbed a towel and a pair of socks from an old
canvas bag and tossed them to Jack. “These socks will be too big, but better
big socks than wet ones.”
“Thanks,” said Jack, drying his feet, then pulling on the warm, woolly
socks.
“You just dodged a case of frostbite, mister,” said Ed. “I bet you kids will
think twice before taking a joyride in a blizzard again.”
“Well, actually, I think we should be heading home soon,” said Jack. “But
don’t worry. It’s not far.”
“
What?
 Are you two crazy? In this weather?” said Ed.
“Well, we’re, um, champion mushers,” Annie said in a small voice.
“Oh, yeah?” Ed squinted at her. “What races have you won?”
“Well…um…they weren’t in Alaska,” Annie said. “We, uh…we won the
Frog Creek Winter Relay and—”
“Never heard of it,” said Ed. “Doesn’t matter. I don’t care who you are;
you’re not going back out in that storm. Your team needs to rest, if nothing
else. And eat! Right, fellas?”
Ed grabbed the burlap sack and pulled out flat pieces of dried pink fish.
The huskies wiggled and whined as Ed started feeding them.
Annie looked at Jack. “Maybe we can stay a little bit longer?” she said
under her breath.
Jack nodded. “Okay. But we have to keep our eye on the time.”
“We will,” said Annie.
The dogs gobbled up every piece of fish and drank from bowls of water.
Then the huskies sat down, put back their heads, and began to howl. The
wind howled outside as all eight dogs howled inside.
Jack knew the howling meant the dogs were satisfied. He, Annie, and Ed
laughed, until the 
howling stopped as abruptly as it had begun.
The dogs then began nodding happily off to sleep, one by one. Some lay
on their sides, while others curled up in tight balls and covered their noses
with their bushy tails.
“All right! Now let’s get 
you
 some food and drink!” said Ed.
“Can you please tell us what time it is again?” asked Jack.
Ed glanced at his watch. “One-fifteen,” he said.
Jack didn’t know what to do. He was hungry, but now they only had seven
hours left to find Gunnar and get back to Nome.
“I’ll make some soup,” said Ed. He seemed determined to keep them from
going back out into the blizzard. He grabbed a can of tomato soup from a
shelf and began opening it with a can opener.
What about our mission?
 Jack wondered. How could he make Ed
understand that they had to leave? “Excuse me,” he said. “I’m afraid—”
“You can wash your hands over there!” Ed 
interrupted. He pointed toward
a tin basin on a washstand.
“It’s okay,” Annie whispered to Jack. “We have time.” She put her red
chapped hands into the cool water and washed them with soap. Jack
reluctantly did the same.
Ed nodded toward the table. “Sit!” he said, as if giving a command to two
huskies.
Jack and Annie smiled. They dried their hands and sat on two wooden
barrels at the table. Ed dropped a box of soda crackers between them and
gave them each a glass of milk. While the blizzard raged outside, he filled
two bowls with steamy soup from a pot on the stove and put them in front of
Jack and Annie. Then he sat in an old armchair near the table.
“Thanks, Ed!” said Annie.
“Yeah, thanks,” said Jack, sighing. Breathing in the delicious smell of the
tomato soup, his worries momentarily faded.
“M
mm, delicious!” said Annie. She and Jack slurped down the hot soup. As
they chewed the salty soda crackers, they watched the dogs breathe
peacefully in their sleep.
“Do most Alaskans have sled dogs?” asked Annie.
“Many do,” said Ed, resting in his armchair near the fire. “But the day is
coming when dogs won’t be used much anymore, except for racing. I can see
it happening already. Small planes will get better and better and take over the
long trips. 
Cars will improve, and roads, too. Soon enough, we’ll have
vehicles that go through deep snow in no time.”
“That’s good in a way,” said Jack. “It’ll help medicine travel faster.”
“But it’s sad, too,” said Annie.
“I’m with you, missy,” said Ed, looking at the sleeping dogs. “Breaks the
heart of an old-timer like me. People have used sled dogs for hundreds of
years in this territory. I myself have known many brave dogs during my
lifetime.”
“Do you know Balto?” said Jack. “Gunnar Kaasen’s dog? We’ve heard of
him.”
“Sure do,” said Ed. “Balto is the best lead dog in Alaska, along with Togo,
Leonhard Seppala’s dog. Both Togo and Balto have stopped here on runs
with Seppala and Kaasen.”
“What’s Balto like?” asked Annie.
“Ahh, that dog loves to run a trail,” said Ed. “Loves it more than any dog I
ever saw. Great strength and lots of courage. Big shaggy black dog. Beautiful
to watch because of his spirit.”
Annie smiled. “I’d like to meet him.”
“Annie has a special way with dogs,” Jack explained.
“With 
all
 animals, really,” said Annie.
Ed smiled at her. “Alaskans are real respectful of animals, too,” he said.
“We wouldn’t have survived a minute without ’em. People here have learned
to use all the gifts this frozen world can give.”
“Like what?” asked Jack.
“Well, the socks I just gave you are made of sheep’s wool,” said Ed. “The
parkas that are drying over there are made of squirrel fur. We all wear
sealskin pants and reindeer boots and fox fur hats. I wear moose skin and
caribou skin and rabbit fur. The medicine headed for Nome is wrapped in
bear hide. The medicine itself is made from horse serum.”
“What’s serum?” said Jack.
“The blood of a horse,” said Ed. “It has antitoxins to kill diphtheria.”
“Wow,” said Annie. “So Alaskans get gifts 
from”—she held up one finger
after another—“sheep, squirrels, seals, reindeer, foxes, moose, caribou,
rabbits, bears, horses…”
“And dogs,” said Jack, finishing his milk.
“And dogs, of course,” said Annie.
“And fish and whales and birds of the air. 
All
 creatures,” said Ed.
“So everything’s connected,” said Annie.
“That’s right,” said Ed, nodding. “Eventually it all becomes one thing…the
people, the land, the animals, the sea, and the air—it becomes Alaska.”
“Cool,” said Jack.
The three of them stared for a long moment at the dogs. Some of the
huskies paddled the air with their paws, as if they were dreaming about
running over the trail.
Ed yawned, and his eyes started to close. A moment later, his head
drooped forward, and he was snoring.
Jack quietly put down his spoon. He tiptoed to the stove and grabbed his
fur boots. They were dry, but his socks were still damp. So he pulled the
boots 
over the big pair of socks Ed had given him. “It’s time to head to
Solomon,” he whispered to Annie. “We have to finish what we came here to
do.”
Annie nodded.
Ed snored loudly as Jack and Annie silently pulled on their fur parkas.
They grabbed their mittens and slipped over to the dogs and gently woke
them. The dogs jumped to their feet. Even though there were whines and
yips, Ed kept snoring.
“Thanks, Ed,” Jack whispered to the sleeping man.
“Yeah, thanks for being so nice to us and the dogs,” whispered Annie.
Then, very quietly, she led the team out of the log cabin. Jack followed,
closing the door behind them.
Outside, the wind and snow were blowing wildly. Jack and Annie pulled
off their mittens long enough to harness the team. They nimbly hooked the
dogs to tug lines, neck lines, and the towline.
“Ready?” Jack shouted above the wind.
“I hope Ed doesn’t worry about us when he wakes up!” Annie shouted
back.
“Oh, man. I just thought of something,” said Jack.
“What?”
“Stardust!” said Jack. “For Ed!”
“Yes!” said Annie. Leaving the dogs waiting for a moment, she and Jack
hurried back to the cabin, slipped inside, and closed the door.
Ed was still snoring.
Annie reached into her pocket and took out the dark blue box. When she
opened the lid, the silvery dust shimmered like starlight. She emptied a small
amount into her palm and tossed the glittering dust into the air, whispering,
“We wish to be forgotten!”
The stardust flashed through the room, then quickly evaporated. To Jack’s
amazement, the bowls, spoons, and cups were clean and stacked neatly on the
counter. Jack’s damp socks had vanished. The unopened soup can was back
on the shelf. The hay was neatly spread across the floor.
“No sign we were here,” said Annie.
“Except Ed will be missing a pair of his socks,” whispered Jack.
Annie laughed. “Full speed ahead!” she whispered. Then she and Jack
slipped back outside into the storm. They ran through the blowing snow to
their waiting team.
“I’m happy to drive for a while!” Jack shouted in the wind. “Is that okay
with you?”
“Sure! I’ll take over whenever you want!” said Annie. She picked up the
snow hook and put it into the basket, then climbed in herself.
Jack stood on the sled runners, crouching slightly and gripping the
handlebars. “Okay, team! Ready to find Gunnar and save lives?” he said.
The huskies barked, as if saying 
YES! YES! YES!
“Ready, willing, and eager!” said Annie.
“Line out!”
 Jack commanded.
The team pulled the towline straight out, making it taut.
“Hike!”
 said Jack.
The eight huskies surged forward. Bells jingling, the team raced away from
the roadhouse of Port Safety, pulling the sled through the blizzard.
As the basket bounced and bumped over uneven ridges on the trail, Annie
almost fell out, but she didn’t complain. Jack could hear her laughing, as if
she were enjoying the ride.
The wind from the frozen sea was bitterly cold. As the wind howled and
snow whirled through the dark, the dogs kept their heads down and ran on
and on.
Jack used his skills to move the team around banks of drifting snow.
Through gale-force winds, he drove the sled over the rough, frozen path at
the edge of the sea.
Like sand in a sandstorm, ice crystals beat against his face, stinging his
skin. His mittens were nearly frozen to the wooden handles. But he felt
protected in his thick fur clothing. He was grateful to all the creatures that
had given their gifts to help Alaskans survive in their frozen world.
As more and more snow stuck to the lenses of his glasses and turned to ice,
Jack knew he shouldn’t keep driving. “We need to switch now!” he called to
Annie.
Before he could give a command to stop the dogs, a fierce gust of wind
slammed against the sled, sending it into a bank. Jack fell off the runners and
was swallowed up in a pile of snow.
“Jack!” cried Annie. “Where are you?”
“Here! Here!” said Jack, floundering as he tried to get up. His heavy fur
clothing made it hard for him to stand, but Annie grabbed his hands and
helped him to his feet.
Together they pulled the sled out from the snowbank and untangled the
rigging.
“I can drive for a while!” said Annie.
“Okay!” said Jack. He sat in the basket.
Annie stood on the runners. 
“Line out!”
 she shouted.
The dogs straightened their lines. But before Annie commanded them to
take off, she yelled, “Jack! Listen!”
Jack listened. He heard the shriek of the wind and the whooshing of snow.
“Listen to 
what
?” he said.
“Bells! I hear bells!” Annie shouted. “Up ahead!”
Now Jack could hear the bells, too—jingling bells. “Yes!” he said.
“Another dog team must be coming toward us!”
“Could it be Gunnar Kaasen and Balto?” shouted Annie.
“Maybe!” yelled Jack.
The jingling bells grew closer…and closer!
“Yay! They’re coming this way for sure!” shouted Annie.
But the sound of the bells stopped suddenly. Then through the storm came
the frantic, high-pitched barking of dogs.
U
ncle Joe’s team of huskies answered with yowling and yelping.
“Something’s wrong!” cried Annie.
“Maybe they had an accident!” said Jack. “Let’s check it out!”
“Hike!”
 yelled Annie. 
“Straight ahead!”
The team took off.
Annie drove the huskies through the dark toward the frantic barking. Soon
they came to another team of dogs floundering in a snowdrift. 
A sled had
crashed and flipped over. The driver was trying to free his dogs.
“Whoa!”
 Annie ordered. 
“Stay!”
 Jack planted the snow hook firmly in the
ground to secure their team. Then he and Annie bowed their heads against the
wind and trudged through the gale.
“Gunnar?” shouted Jack. “Gunnar Kaasen?”
The driver waved and shouted, “Yes!”
“Oh, wow! We were sent to help you!” cried Annie. “Are you okay?”
“Yes! Just hit a bump back there!” said the famous dog musher. “The sled
went flying and crashed on its side!”
Annie and Jack began helping Gunnar. They grabbed each dog by its
harness and, one by one, pulled them out of the soft snow. By the time the
dogs were all on their feet again, Jack had counted thirteen huskies.
Jack and Annie helped Gunnar turn the sled upright, setting it back on its
runners. Then together, all three stomped on the snow with their 
boots,
packing it down so the dogs could pull the sled out.
“Line out!”
 Gunnar commanded his team.
Soon the dogs were lined up in pairs in front of the sled, with a single dog
in the lead.
“Wait, is that Balto?” shouted Annie.
“Yes!” said Gunnar.
Annie hurried to the front of the line. “Hi, Balto!”
Balto barked a greeting and leapt up to lick Annie’s face. The bells on his
collar jingled wildly. She laughed and hugged him. “I’ve wanted to meet you
for a long time!” she shouted.
“Do you have the medicine for Nome?” Jack asked Gunnar.
“Yes!” the musher said, leaning over the sled. “It’s right here—Oh! No!
No!
”
“No what?” said Jack. “What’s wrong?”
“The package is missing!” Gunnar yelled.
“Missing?” said Jack.
“Where is it?” cried Gunnar. “Where is it?”
“Where is it?” Jack echoed.
“It was tied to the sled!” shouted Gunnar. “This is a catastrophe!” In the
biting wind, the musher fell to his knees and frantically dug through the
snow, looking for the medicine package.
“What’s wrong?” Annie called from the front of the line of dogs.
Jack ran to her. “He lost the medicine! It fell off his sled!” he said. “We
have to help him find it!”
“Wait, wait!” said Annie. “I’ll bet 
Balto
 can find it!” She crouched beside
the lead dog and unhooked his tug line and neck line.
“No, don’t unhook him!” said Jack. “We can’t lose Balto, too!”
“We won’t lose him!” said Annie. “He can help.”
She grabbed the lead dog’s head between her mittens and put her face
close to his, saying words Jack couldn’t hear. Then she released Balto. “Find
the medicine! Find it now!” Annie yelled.
While Gunnar crawled around in the snow looking for the package, Balto
took off in the direction 
his team had come. With his nose to the ground, the
husky trotted back down the trail.
“Let’s follow him, Jack!” cried Annie. Leaving Gunnar and the rest of the
dogs behind, she and Jack hurried after Balto. They trudged through the
snowstorm after the eager dog, following the jingling of his collar bells.
When Annie and Jack reached Balto, he was whining and digging through
the snow.
“I think he found it!” Annie shouted.
Jack felt around in the windswept snow until he touched something soft
and solid. He pulled a heavy, fur-wrapped bag out of the snow and struggled
to stand up with it.
“Great job, Balto! You found it!” shouted Annie.
“Gunnar!” Jack yelled. “We found the package!” But his voice didn’t carry
through the storm. “Let’s take it to him!” he said to Annie.
Balto started back the way they’d come, his collar bells jingling. Carrying
the package of lifesaving medicine, Jack followed Balto and Annie.
When they reached Gunnar’s team, Annie quickly hooked Balto to the
front of the line. Then she and Jack hurried to Gunnar. The musher was still
on his knees, not far from the sled, wildly shoveling through the snow with
his hands.
“Gunnar, it’s okay!” shouted Jack. “We have the package! It was back
there! It must’ve fallen out when you hit the bump.”
“Balto found it!” said Annie.
Gunnar gave a happy shout and staggered to his feet. Jack handed over the
fur-wrapped package, and Gunnar tied it tightly to his sled.
“You go ahead, we’ll follow you!” Jack shouted.
“We can help you if you need us again!” said Annie.
“Thank you!” shouted Gunnar Kaasen. “I won’t forget you! Thank you!”
Annie yelled good-bye to Balto. Then she and Jack hurried back through
the whirling snow to their own sled. The huskies greeted them noisily.
“Ready, team!” Jack yelled, pulling up the snow hook. “You’re going to
follow Balto!”
“Can I drive?” Annie shouted.
“Sure! We can switch places at Port Safety, if you want!” said Jack.
As he climbed into the basket, Jack thought about the Port Safety
roadhouse. He wondered if Gunnar planned to stop there. It would be weird
to meet Ed all over again, as if for the first time.
Annie stood on the runners and waited. Soon jingling bells could be heard.
Moments later, Gunnar’s team dashed by. With Balto in the lead, all thirteen
huskies pulled the musher and his sled over the snow.
As the jingling faded into the night, Annie shouted, 
“Hike!”
 The eight
huskies bolted forward and got back on the trail, dashing after Balto’s team.
As Jack bumped around in the basket, he held on to the sides and closed
his eyes against the fury of the storm. It wasn’t long, though, before he heard
Annie shout, “Port Safety roadhouse up ahead!”
Jack opened his eyes and saw the log cabin.
“Jack, look! Gunnar kept going!” yelled Annie. “He didn’t stop at the
roadhouse!”
“Keep following them!” said Jack.
“Gee!”
 Annie yelled, and swung her dogs away from the roadhouse.
Jack and Annie’s huskies kept following the jingling bells of Balto as he
and his team led the way north to Nome. Racing along the coast of the Bering
Sea, Jack and Annie’s team seemed even livelier and stronger than before. It
was as if Balto was leading their team as well as his own.
Guided by Balto’s spirit, all twenty-one dogs flew over the flat shoreline.
As they ran, the weather improved. The snow stopped falling, and the wind
died down. Amazingly, in less than three hours, the blizzard had stopped
completely. The sky had begun to clear.
In the early gray dawn, Jack saw a church steeple in the distance. He saw
lights flickering in the windows of houses.
“We’re back! We made it to Nome!” he cried.
“Hurray!” said Annie.
The sun was rising as they followed Balto’s team into town.
“We should take these guys back to Oki and Uncle Joe!” said Annie.
“You’re right!” said Jack. “Gunnar’s good now! The medicine’s arrived!”
“Haw!”
 commanded Annie. And the dogs veered left and headed for the
spit of land near the frozen sea.
In the early light, the huskies stopped at Uncle Joe’s shack. As the dogs
whined and yelped, Oki flew out the front door. His uncle followed, hobbling
on his crutch.
Though exhausted, the dogs had enough energy to jump up and down and
bark excitedly as their two friends greeted them with great joy.
J
ack climbed out of the sled as Annie stepped off the runners. A thin layer of
ice covered their faces and clothes, but they were both laughing as they
stamped their feet and swung their arms.
“You made it back!” Oki shouted.
“What time is it?” asked Jack.
“Almost six o’clock!” said Oki.
Jack smiled at Annie. “With time to spare!” he said.
“Thank God you are safe!” said Uncle Joe.
“Did you find Gunnar Kaasen?” Oki asked.
“We did!” said Annie. “On the trail below Port Safety! His sled had
overturned. The medicine was lost, but Balto helped us find it!”
“Gunnar and his team arrived in Nome just ahead of us,” said Jack.
“They’re delivering the medicine to the hospital!”
Uncle Joe closed his eyes and sighed with relief. Oki couldn’t stop
grinning. He pumped Jack’s mittened hand, and Annie’s, too. “Thank you!
Thank you! You 
are
 champions!”
“Don’t thank us!” said Jack. “Thank your dogs—they’re the real
champions!”
Oki opened the gate to the dog pen. The team of huskies walked in,
panting wearily. Jack and Annie helped Oki and Uncle Joe unhitch the dogs
from their neck lines and tug lines and pull off their harnesses. Then they
massaged the dogs’ backs and legs.
Oki gave the dogs water, and Jack and Annie fed them dried fish. The
huskies wolfed down their meal and then howled with gratitude. As the sun
rose over Nome, the eight brave dogs curled their 
bodies into the bright snow,
covered their noses with their tails, and closed their eyes.
“Take a long rest, team,” said Jack.
“You deserve it,” said Annie.
“Let’s go to the hospital,” said Uncle Joe.
“Yes!” said Oki.
“We’ll walk with you,” said Annie.
Uncle Joe hobbled on his crutch as the four of them headed to town.
Reflecting the brilliant blue of the early-morning sky, the snow itself looked
blue.
By the time they arrived at the hospital, a small crowd had gathered. Jack
saw Mayor Maynard and Gunnar Kaasen surrounded by a group of reporters
with cameras and notebooks.
Gunnar’s huskies were off to the side. Children were petting them, and
photographers were taking pictures. As the dogs smiled and panted, Jack
could see their clouds of white breath.
“The newspapers are here!” said Oki. “The whole world will soon hear this
story! We will tell everyone what you have done, Jack and Annie. 
They will
honor you, too!”
Oki and his uncle walked faster.
“Whoa, wait,” Jack said to Annie. “Stardust.”
“Right.” Annie reached into her pocket and pulled out the dark blue box.
“Are you coming?” Oki called back to them.
“Yes! We’ll be right there!” shouted Jack.
As Oki and his uncle headed toward the crowd, Annie lifted the lid of the
tiny box. Silvery powder shimmered inside. “We wish to be forgotten by
everyone who saw us on our mission!” Annie said. Then she tossed the
contents of the box into the air.
Like tiny grains of windswept snow, the stardust flashed brilliantly over
the street. Before anyone could even look up, the silver dust evaporated, and
the sharp, crisp air was clear again.
Annie put the tiny box back in her pocket. “Done,” she said.
Then she and Jack headed toward the gathering in front of the hospital.
When they drew close to the crowd, Oki caught sight of them—but 
then he
looked away, as if he’d never seen them before. His uncle did the same.
Gunnar Kaasen also glanced in their direction, but his eyes passed over them
without interest.
“I guess it worked,” said Jack.
“Yeah, no one remembers us at all,” Annie said. She sounded sad. Jack felt
a little sad, too.
“Mayor Maynard! Tell us about the heroes of the great serum race!” a
reporter said.
Mayor Maynard proudly stepped forward. “For five and a half days,
twenty mushers and more than a hundred and sixty dogs hauled the lifesaving
medicine to Nome!” he proclaimed.
“How many miles was that?” a reporter asked as he scribbled on a pad.
“Nearly seven hundred miles!” said the mayor. “And two of our citizens
from Nome heroically took part in the relay—Leonhard Seppala and Gunnar
Kaasen. Both mushers had strong lead dogs. Leonhard and his dog Togo ran
across frozen Norton Sound to Golovin, and Gunnar and his dog Balto
brought the medicine from Bluff to Nome!”
Another reporter yelled to Gunnar Kaasen, “Congratulations, Mr. Kaasen!
To what do you owe the success of your part of the relay?”
“I owe everything to my lead dog, Balto!” said Gunnar. The famous
musher pointed at the husky sitting patiently nearby. “He’s a working dog,
like all the others. But he’s the best!”
In the daylight, Jack got a good look at Balto. The husky had shaggy black
fur, except for white paws and a white chest and a bit of white around his
mouth. He had gentle brown eyes.
“You told the mayor that you lost the medicine in an accident at one
point,” the reporter said.
Gunnar nodded. “Yes, that’s right. Yes, I did.”
“And how did you find it?” the reporter asked.
“I…well, I…” The musher shook his head. “I’m not sure. After the
accident, I discovered it missing. Somehow the package had come untied
from my sled. I panicked and…well, I dug around in the snow. And…I don’t
know…I guess I just found it.”
“It seems like a miracle!” the reporter said. 
He turned back to the mayor.
“What a disaster it would have been if the medicine were lost on the trail!”
“Indeed,” said Mayor Maynard. “The hard work of all the mushers and
dogs would have been for nothing. And many more people would have lost
their lives to diphtheria. But I have now delivered the package into the hands
of Dr. Welch and Nurse Morgan, who will give the lifesaving serum to their
patients!”
Everyone clapped and cheered. Oki and his uncle cheered the loudest.
Jack and Annie looked at each other. “Time to go,” said Jack.
“Okey dokey,” said Annie.
The reporter was asking more questions as Jack and Annie pulled away
from the crowd, heading back to the tree house. They hadn’t gone far down
the boardwalk when they heard barking. They both turned.
“Balto?” said Annie.
The beautiful black husky was bounding after them.
“Balto!” said Annie. She knelt in the blue dawn and reached out her arms.
Balto nearly knocked her over as he licked her face. His dark eyes were
twinkling. He seemed to be smiling.
“He remembers us, Jack!” said Annie. “Balto remembers us!”
“Yep,” said Jack. “But that’s okay. He won’t tell anyone.”
Annie laughed.
“Balto!” Gunnar Kaasen shouted. “Come!”
The crowd barely glanced at Jack and Annie.
“Balto!” called Gunnar.
“Go on, Balto,” Annie said. “You’re their hero. They need you.”
Balto gave her one more lick. Then he left them and trotted back toward
the cheering crowd. His head and tail were held high, his fur fringed with
sunlight.
Jack and Annie turned away and headed down the boardwalk. Soon they
left Front Street and walked along the creek. They crossed the bridge and the
frosty field to the bare tree with the tree house.
In his thick fur boots and mittens, Jack clumsily climbed the rope ladder.
Annie followed him. When they looked out the window, they were nearly
blinded by the dazzling reflection of sunlight on the snow and the ice-covered
sea.
“Mission accomplished,” said Annie.
“I guess we helped save lives,” said Jack.
“Yep,” said Annie. “Now let’s go home and get warm.” She picked up the
Pennsylvania book and pointed to a picture of the Frog Creek woods.
“I wish we could go there,” she said.
The wind started to blow.
The tree house started to spin.
It spun faster and faster.
Then everything was still.
Absolutely still.
J
ack felt warm, wonderfully warm. He was wearing his shorts and T-shirt
again. No time at all had passed in Frog Creek. It was still twilight on a
summer night.
“Nice,” said Annie.
“
Really
 nice,” said Jack. He reached into his pocket and took out the tiny
box, empty of gold dust now. He placed it on the floor of the tree house, next
to the guide to the Territory of Alaska.
Annie reached into her pocket and pulled out 
the shimmering dark blue
box, empty of stardust. She put it beside the gold box on the floor.
“That was a good trip,” said Annie.
“Yeah, a little cold, a little stressful,” said Jack, “but all in all, very good.”
“The best part, of course, was the dogs,” said Annie.
“Totally,” said Jack. “Come on, let’s go. Let’s go home.” He started down
the rope ladder.
“Huskies are great dogs,” said Annie, following him.
“Yep,” said Jack. “Strong and brave.”
“And really smart, too. Like Saint Bernards. Remember Barry in
Switzerland?” Annie said as she stepped off the ladder.
“Of course,” said Jack. He smiled and shook his head, remembering the
giant crazy puppy high in the mountains.
“And remember when Morgan turned Teddy into a terrier?” said Annie.
“Of course,” Jack said. “We’d better walk our bikes now. It’s getting dark
fast.”
“Okay,” said Annie. She and Jack started pushing their bicycles over
leaves and grass.
The woods were filled with the sounds of summer. Bullfrogs croaked from
the hidden creek. Crickets chirped in the grass. An owl hooted from a tree
branch. Then came another sound: 
Yip!
“What was that?” said Annie, stopping.
“I don’t know,” said Jack.
Yip!
“It sounds like a dog,” said Annie.
“No way,” said Jack. “That’s too much of a coincidence!”
Yip. Yip!
“Coincidence or not, there’s a dog around here somewhere,” said Annie.
She parked her bike against a tree.
“Seriously?” said Jack.
“Shhh—” said Annie.
The leaves rustled. 
Yip. Yip!
In the dark, Annie got down on her hands and knees. “Where are you?” she
whispered.
Yip, yip, yip!
“I’ve got you!” said Annie, and she lifted a wiggling little black-and-white
puppy out of the greenery.
“I don’t believe this,” said Jack.
“Look—look!” said Annie. She stood up and carried the puppy over to
Jack. “Here, pet him.”
Jack reached out, and the next thing he knew, his hand was wet from
puppy licks. “Oh, man!” he said, laughing.
“Can you push my bike?” Annie asked. “I’ll carry him to the street so we
can get a good look at him.”
Annie took off with the puppy.
Jack tried to steer two bikes through the woods. Annie’s bike twisted and
fell over, but Jack finally got a good grip and wheeled both bikes out to the
sidewalk.
Annie was standing under a streetlamp, cradling the puppy in her arms.
“Let me see him,” said Jack. He parked the bikes and looked at the puppy
under the light. The tiny dog had beautiful big brown eyes. His curly black-
and-white fur was soft and shiny.
“Ohh,” said Jack, stroking the furry little head. “He’s really cute.”
“Let’s get him home,” said Annie. “I’m sure he’s hungry and thirsty.”
Jack grabbed their bikes again and started down the sidewalk with Annie
and the puppy. “What breed do you think he is?” he asked.
“I think he’s a mix,” said Annie.
“A mix of 
what
, I wonder,” said Jack.
“Lots of dogs! All sizes, big, small, and in between. Saint Bernard, terrier,
husky,” said Annie. “He’s a mix of all the dogs we’ve ever loved.”
Jack nodded. “Cool,” he said. “I hope Mom and Dad will let us keep him.”
“They will,” said Annie. “They said we could get a dog when we found the
right one. And this is 
definitely
 the right one.”
“Yeah, but what if he’s just lost?” said Jack.
“Don’t worry. We’ll ask around and put up signs,” said Annie. “But I have
a feeling he’s not lost. I think he was actually in the woods waiting for us. I
think he’s a gift.”
“A gift? From who?” said Jack.
“Maybe from Merlin and Morgan,” said Annie. “A gift to thank us.”
Jack smiled. He liked that idea. “So what do you think we should name
him?” he said.
“Hmm…” Annie thought for a moment. “What about Oki?”
“Oki?”
 said Jack. “Like the boy we just met?”
“Yeah, I like that name,” said Annie. “Plus, it’ll remind us of all the
huskies and Balto.”
“Yeah…,” said Jack. “But, hey, just promise me if he asks to go outside or
eat or play with a toy, you won’t say ‘Okey dokey, Oki.’ ”
Annie laughed. “I promise,” she said.
They climbed the steps to their front porch. Then Annie stopped at the
screen door. “Ready to meet the parents?” she asked the puppy.
Yip. Yip!
“Okey dokey, Oki,” said Annie. “Let’s go inside.”
F
or more than one hundred years, sled dog racing has been a favorite sport in
Alaska. The most famous race in sled dog history took place in the winter of
1925, when a relay of sled teams carried a medicine to fight diphtheria from
Anchorage, Alaska, up to Nome, Alaska, in less than six days. That wondrous
achievement became known as the Great Race of Mercy.
Many brave mushers and their dogs risked their lives in brutal weather to
save the diphtheria patients in Nome. The nationwide attention given 
to their
story helped raise awareness about the importance of widespread vaccines to
prevent the disease.
Most famous of the dogsled drivers was Leonhard Seppala, who, with the
help of his dog Togo, carried the medicine farther than any other driver.
Gunnar Kaasen and his lead dog, Balto, received the most accolades from the
public because they were the last in the relay and delivered the serum to
Nome, where reporters and well-wishers were waiting to celebrate the entire
run.
There was some controversy surrounding the fact that Kaasen received so
much credit, especially as he had chosen not to stop at the Port Safety
roadhouse and allow a musher named Ed Rohn to carry the medicine on the
final leg of the trip. Kaasen said that the darkened cabin led him to believe
Rohn was sleeping, and therefore time would be wasted by waking him and
hitching up all his dogs and getting him on the trail. So Kaasen decided to
speed on to Nome to get the medicine there as soon as possible.
Regardless of the debate over who should have received the most credit,
the 1925 serum race was testimony to the courage, strength, and skill of 
all
the Alaskan mushers and their amazing dog teams.
Today people remember the serum race every spring, when sled drivers
and their teams gather to run in the Iditarod, the biggest sporting event of the
year in Alaska.

Mary Pope Osborne
is the author of many novels, picture books, story collections, and
nonfiction books. Her 
New York Times
 number one bestselling Magic
Tree House series has been translated into numerous languages around
the world. Highly recommended by parents and educators everywhere,
the series introduces young readers to different cultures and times in
history, as well as to the world’s legacy of ancient myth and storytelling.
She and her husband, writer Will Osborne (author of 
Magic Tree House:
The Musical
), live in northwestern Connecticut with their three dogs.
Ms. Osborne is coauthor of the companion Magic Tree House Fact
Trackers with Will and with her sister, Natalie Pope Boyce.